# Script

Created: Jan 21, 2020 12:52 PM
URL: file:///C:/Users/creep/Desktop/Year%201%20Sem%202/Narrative%20Thinking/CA2/Script.docx
Updated: Feb 11, 2020 1:48 PM

Hi my name is Yiterng and Iam speaking to you guys for a TED Talk to promote mental health among sp students organised by the SPEAR coordinators about the issue of Loneliness.

Before we start, I would like to ask everyone here a question. “Are you lonely?” ………. Now this may seem like a weird or unusual question to ask, but I assure you, it’s a question that isn’t asked nearly enough. Loneliness is a very serious problem in our current society, in fact, according to a report made by the Swinburne University and Vichealth, 1 in 3 people are lonely, whether they know it or not. Now, You’d think that with social media such as Instagram and Twitter, that we’d feel more connected to one another. That however could not be further from the truth. In fact, we’re lonelier and more depressed than ever.

Today, I will talk to you about the issue of loneliness, as well as how to combat it. A few years ago, I had my first encounter with depression. My close friend, who was usually very cheerful and talkative, suddenly became quiet and reserved. Now, this was a new experience for me at that time, I had no idea what depression even meant. (4)However, I knew he was sad, and that it was not good for him. He started eating less, going out less. He looked so sad and moody every day. His results suffered, his friendships with others suffered as well. Life was basically going downhill. As his close friend, I made it my mission to better understand depression to try and help him overcome it. One day, I was thinking about the causes of depression. I came across numerous articles of bullying, cyberbullying, family affairs and more. But one article out of the many caught my eye. It was the only one that talked about loneliness being a cause of depression. After reading and finding out more, I realised that the true cause of his depression was in fact, loneliness. Since then, I’ve been thinking about the topic of loneliness a lot, and how it is often overlooked.

(3)So why is loneliness such a big issue? Loneliness can severely harm an individuals mental health. People who are lonely have an increased risk of depression, anxiety, paranoia or suffer panic attacks. They feel over self-conscious about what others think of them, they feel hopelessness and feelings of despair. Loneliness is the trigger point for many mental health conditions and negative thinking. The negative effects of loneliness can no longer be ignored.

Now, I want to give you guys some tips and strategies on how to deal with loneliness. These strategies were derived from extensive discussions I had with professional counsellors during my research.

(2.5)The first strategy to get rid of loneliness, is to start talking with as many people as you can. And by that, I also mean to have more **meaningful** conversations with them. Thats the keyword. Think about this, how often have you been asked for directions? Now, what most people would do, would be to just answer the question and be on their merry way. How often do you see someone who answers the question, and also initiates a small conversation, such as asking the person about themselves or even said something as simple as “Have a nice day”? Think about how different your day might be if you were the one to do that. You may even make new friends out of people who would otherwise just have been another stranger. Hence, my advice is to start by doing what is convenient and already natural in your daily routine, such as greeting the bus driver or food stall owners you see everyday.

The second strategy I have for you, is to share about yourself and open up. Tell stories about yourself and talk about your thoughts and interests. This will take your interactions to a whole new depth and create real and meaningful connections with the people around you. Say that you are discussing with someone about whether to go a polytechnic or a junior college. They may think that going to a polytechnic is better since he thinks its easier than going to a junior college, but you think and know otherwise, then please, say what you believe. When we take the risk to speak our minds, that’s also when we create deep and meaningful connections with people.

(1)Now, back to the story of my friend who was lonely and depressed. After talking to a therapist, he made it a point to start talking to people more, he greeted the bus drivers on his way to and back from school, he started conversations with the kids and elderly downstairs of his block. He started to offer his opinions and views on various matters in life. He got to see more of the world and more perspectives of others. He also found people of similar interests to his. This made him feel more fulfilled and happier. He made new friends and formed meaningful relationships.

(30) Hence, I implore you to try these strategies yourself if you are lonely, or share them with people you suspect are lonely. Loneliness is a pressing issue in today’s society that we cannot ignore. Start talking and helping people who you suspect or know are lonely. Practice using these strategies and slowly change and improve yourself day by day. As Martin Luther King once said, “You don’t have to see the whole staircase, just take the first step.”

Thank you